----------
Pest damage, mould, breakage, rodents
Amitermes,
Poor Threshing Techniques
Decay due to high temperature
Pests
Feed Miller Weevils
Insects, rodents
Rain Pre-Harvest Causing Germination On The Stalk
Feed Miller Spoilage
Garistorage/Spoilage
Hot Weather During Harvest And Post Packaging
The vast majority of mango farmers interviewed (98%) sold all their produce to  middlemen/brokers at the farm-gate with only 2 percent selling some of the produce to markets  outside Embu district. Usually, no collective bargaining takes place on the price because each  farmer interacts individually with traders (brokers) and as a result, traders take advantage of  farmers by colluding to buy mangoes at prices lower than the prevailing market prices. This  exploitative tendency by buyers who offer very low prices was mentioned by 94 percent of farmers  as the major marketing challenge followed by delayed purchase after harvest (64%). This occurs  when brokers instruct farmers to harvest the mangoes promising to pick them up the next day but   41  then intentionally delay to do so. They then persuade farmers to sell their produce at lower prices  to avoid additional spoilage and loss given that mangoes are highly perishable. On-farm sorting,  grading and bulking of mango fruit is a common practice and is usually done by traders (brokers)  before buying them. They bring their own workers to the farm to harvest the fruit or by giving a  purchasing future date thus advising farmers on when to harvest. In both cases, the buyer meets the  labour costs involved. After sorting, damaged mangoes are rejected by buyers and farmers usually  have to find alternative use or ways to dispose the fruits. Those rejected because of fruit fly  infestation are buried in a deep hole.  The lack of good storage facilities at the farm level was also a major challenge that compelled  54 percent of farmers to sell their mangoes on the day of harvesting. Others (46%) kept them under a  makeshift shed to minimize sunburn, loss of moisture and accumulation of dust for a few days as  they waited to sell. In addition, most access roads to farms are passable only during the dry seasons  of the year but if there are heavy rains during the harvesting period, accessibility is impeded thus  contributing to post-harvest losses and a deterioration of quality leading to low selling prices. When  farmers were asked to rank the attributes that buyers considered as the most important when  selecting mangoes for purchase, 96 percent ranked fruit size first, followed closely by quality (92%),  colour as a maturity indicator (80%) and mango variety (42%). These results reveal the importance  of quality as a key attribute of marketable fruit. It is a compound attribute that refers to the lack of  external or internal damage or injury caused by insect pests, diseases, birds or mechanical damage.
Insects and mold
Harvesting  technique, weather  conditions and  quality problems.     Improved agronomical  techniques, preventing  the yield from ergot (sac  fungi), finding new uses  for the side flow, finding  ways to overcome small  scale problem, feeding  side flow to animals (no  impact on side flow  amount).
Harvester adjustment and manoeuvring, cultivar choice, size of field, size of headland.
Market glut and spoilage
Fresh Tuber Transport
labour-group (or trader-harvester) harvesting and mechanical threshing
The reduction in the weight could also be due to moisture  losses from the grains during storage as well as pest and  insect infestations.
Paddy Drying
1 Khoku Bruises, injuries, rottening Improper handling, falling of fruits, fungal attack 2.5  2 Chhintang Scratches, puncture of fruits, insect infestation Improper harvesting, infestation 2-3  3 Dhankuta Physical damage, bruises, cuts, over ripen,  immature  Improper harvesting, falling of fruits, improper  handling, monkey attack  4-5  4 Budhimorang and Khuaphok Bruises, scratches Improper handling 1-2  5 Bhirgaon Damaged, insect infestation, bruises Due to fall of fruits, cracked and spoiled fruits 4-7  6 Maunabudhuk Bruises, softness, puncturing of fruits Falling from height, open stacking, Improper plucking 5.5
Feed Miller Rodents
Mechanical Damage
Higher Losses In July Due To Fruit Flies
Improper Harvesting And Transportation Methods, Unsuitable Storage Of Products After Harvest, Poor Sorting, Improper Packaging And Distribution. Losses Also Occur During Retail Sale, Consumption And Processing
An estimated 1.5% of the maize,  millet, sorghum and groundnut outputs were estimated to be lost  during harvesting. Losses during transportation of the crops by  head-loads, on bicycles and other means were 2.5%
Farmgate To Market
Pre-cooling and  packaging
Transport To Feed Miller
main causes of this were a mismatch in supply and demand or cosmetic and quality related
Critical loss points  ? Following review of literature and through key informant interview  ? Harvesting  ? Storage and associated grain processing stages  ? Milling identified as critical loss points    1. Harvesting causes  -Carelessness and insufficient  supervision  thus spillage  -Lack of proper harvesting tools for  both maize and sunflower  2. Storage causes  -grain contamination - ground  drying  -Improper threshing - damage  -poor storage facilities - rodent  attack and leakage thus grain  spoilage  -Storage pest damage - loss in  quality and rushed sales     Causes of Milling losses include  -Spillage  -Poor pre-treatments resulting in grain  contamination at this stage  -Lack of proper maintenance
Poor facilities
Damage during  harvest and handling,  no  sale/overproduction,  weather conditions,  other quality  parameters and  damage from  animals are the main  reasons given.
Village Traders
Lack Of Labour, Lack Of EquipmentS, Rain During Harvest, Harvest Wet Grain
Poor harvesting tool
Rural Market
Sorting by brokers
10% loss from farm-gate to local market. An additional 20% loss occurs when produce travels from regional/local market to national market
Birds And Insects Attack
Trimming Before Pre-Cooling Caused Losses
Machine Damagesmall Scale
Rodents, Insects, Moulds
Levels of postharvest losses in fruits owing to improper harvesting, handling, grading, packing, transportation and storage
Rotting, cut potatoes and green potatoes
Bukhariet al. (1983) found that the average grain losses during conventional harvesting, bundling,  transporting, threshing, winnowing and cleaning were 3.67, 3.98, 0.24, 1.18, 2.46, and 4.53%,  respectively
Varieties, Mold, Land
Physical Damage Rotting/Decay
At Wholesale
Market
Pests and Disorders
Early Harvestmold, Land Race Variety
Threshing
Winnowing
Combine
There was considerable variation in the levels ofloss between crops. In wheat and  barley they were very low (around 1 %). These crops are typically grown at the higher  altitudes, where insect activity is low and storage periods are short (3-4 months).  Sorghum and maize suffered higher losses (4-6%). However, it was demonstrated  that correct application of storage insecticides achieved a significant reduction of  losses in maize (to 0.5%). Losses in beans were very variable (<1%- 15%).
Drying
Pest/Disease Damage, Poor Postharvest Handling And Poor Infrastructure
Chemicals Repening Agents
Six Months central Storage
Processing Starch
Poor Roads And Poor Transport
Average Varieties, Mold, Land Race Variety
Milling
Weather, Field Damage    d. Quantitative post-harvest losses of economic importance occur  in the field (15%); during processing (13e20%), and during storage (15e25%). The main storage pests  responsible for the losses are larger grain borers (Prostephanus truncatus), grain weevils (Sitophilus  granarius) and, the lesser grain borer (Rhyzopertha dominica). Most of the farmers considered changes in  weather (40%), field damage (33%), and storage pests (16%) as the three most important factors causing  poor crop yields and aggravating food losses. However, survey results suggest that the farmers? poor  knowledge and skills on post-harvest management are largely responsible for the food losses. 77% of the  surveyed farmers reported inadequate household foods and 41% received food aid during the previous  year. Increasing farmers? technical know-how on adaptation of the farming systems to climate variability,  and training on post-harvest management could reduce food losses, and improve poverty and household  food security
Second class mangoes are taken to ORE?s drying facility at Camp Perrin, where fruits  are classified again. Less than 20 percent of fruits are considered unsuitable for  drying due to over ripeness, rotting or excessive bruising.
Bag Beating/Bambam    The results of the survey showed that harvesting losses  ranged between 3.03 and 12.05% while threshing losses  varied from 0.53 to 4.07% (Table 3). Total losses due to  only harvesting and threshing losses at farmer?s fields  ranged between 5.60 and 16.14%. The differences in  postharvest losses among the farmers were due to  different level of skill of harvesting and threshing as well  as poor weed control. During the study it was observed  that the farmers? fields were engulfed in a lot of weeds.  Poor weed control is known to interfere with effectiveness  of harvesting (Al-Khatib, 1995).
Poor Harvesting Methods, Lack Of Training, Poor Packaging, Lack Of Proper Storage Facilities And Marketing
Too Mature, Leading To Breakage
Excluding Processing Losses
Diseases and  weather conditions.
Beating Of Cobs In A Polypropylene Bag
Krishi Bazar Store Oranges In Cemented Floor On Plastics, Straw Bed, Doko, Crates, And Sacks And On Plant Leaves Bed    Storage losses were evaluated in two ways. In  one way, survey was performed in Krishi Bazar  and in other; simulation of storage condition was  done in room. During survey, no cold storage  facility was reported. The dealers in Krishi Bazar  store oranges in cemented floor on plastics, straw  bed, doko, crates, and sacks and on plant leaves  bed. The oranges do not remain there for long  time. Only storage for 2 to 4 days was observed.  During this time, losses upto 5% was reported by  dealers. This loss was due to evaporation loss,  rottening, breakage, etc.For the assessment of  post harvest storage losses in room condition,  oranges were evaluated according to the following  categories:  a. Oranges without shrinkage or diseases and  disorders.  b. Oranges without pathological diseases.  c. Oranges without disorders or evaporative loss.  In every case, losses were evaluated after having  divided oranges visually. The results obtained are  shown in the Figure 1. They represent the  average of some measurements carried out in  December to January 2012 in storage. The total  loss during storage for 21 days was found to be  40.1%.
Mechanical damage
Storage Maize Grain
due to delays in processing and account for 80% of all physical losses in the value chain
Quality losses due damage and decay
Improper Handling During Packaging    Improper handling, overloading and dropping of the fruits  during weighment are the main factors of losses during  packaging. The dealers generally sell the produce after  packing in polythene bags in loose condition and overload  the bags. So losses of upto 0.2 to 1% occurred.
Bag Beating/Bambam
Krishi Bazar Store Oranges In Cemented Floor On Plastics, Straw Bed, Doko, Crates, And Sacks And On Plant Leaves Bed
Disease And Rot
Public Utility Vehicle/Motorcycleb
Diseases and  weather conditions.    Weather conditions.  ? Field etc. conditions.  ? Harvest losses.  ? Machine loss/the work, which was during the growing season.  ? Other
Fig 3 Percent Loss for Apples
On average, of the two companies? total production, 3.3% was not harvested, 1% was lost  during harvesting, 7.8% was lost during cleaning and washing, 8.6% was lost during  blanching and freezing, 0.7% was lost during colour sorting and 0% was lost during sales  and reclamation. No company responded that there were losses at any other step.
Diseases and  damage, quality,  appearance.
Nematode
Manual Harvesting
Poor Storage Structures, Storage Of Untreated Grain
Parboiled Ricedrying
Combine-Harvester
Poor Storage Practices
Depends on variey
Physical Losses
By Motor Thresher
AMRI (1987) found  2.2% wheat losses for combine as compared to 4.65% for reapers and about 7.5% for manual  harvesting.
Poor handling
Tuber Too Small
Mirasi et al. (2013) measured grain losses of different wheat varieties with different  models of combine during harvest stage. They observed that average pre harvest losses in all fields of  study were 31.4 kg ha-1  accounting for 12.71 percent of total losses.
Rejected potatoes
Feed Storage Weevils
Average /Frequency of producers/Frequency of producers who answered ?Don?t know?   In field 14% 47% 36%  During harvesting 5% 44% 27%  During cleaning 2% 9% 30%  During husking 5% 5% 27%  During blanching and freezing 0% 3% 28%  During colour sorting 8% 5% 27%  During sale and reclaim 17% 5% 30%  Other* 14% 14% 22%    Disease in field 5% 22% 23%  Damage from animals 20% 34% 19%  Weather conditions (rain, flooding, etc.) 38% 30% 19%  Technical problems related to cultivation method  (spray damage or similar)  5% 16% 22%  Damage during harvest and handling 51% 27% 25%  Other quality parameters 23% 8% 23%  Reclaims 0% 6% 22%  No sale or overproduction 35% 19% 23%  Other* 13% 11% 20%
les rongeurs et les insectes
mechanical damage.leaf yellowing. sound leaves trimmed by accident. pest damage
Poor display and storage facilities -
nan  Table 4  Percentage losses during manual processing practices.
lack of pre-sorting to remove decayed produce before packing promoted spread of fungal and bacterial diseases and insect pests during handling
Dalayed In Harvesting Due To Fall In Prices Forcing Farmers To Dalay The Harvest
Reaper Plus Thresher
Pests, plant  diseases and  quality reasons  are the main  reasons.
Singh et al. (1988) tested three tractor front mounted reapers, manufactured locally by FMI,  AMRI and Ittefaq on wheat crop in Pakistan. The wheat grain losses with these reapers were 1.19,  2.63 and 2.76%, respectively.
Traditional On-Farm Storage Six Months Improved Silo Storage
Storage loss ( 4%) 98,314 t  Traders (4%) Traders   Storage loss (9%) 584,347 t  Farms (4.5%) Farmers
Parboiling
quality deviations
Late Harvest Mold,Improved Variety
Dropped, Tossed, And Trodden On On Top Of Loads), The Crop Is Relatively Resistant To Mechanical Damage. Most Losses Occur During Transportation, Storage Over Winter, And At The Wholesale And Retail Markets
Poor cultural practices, not processed into flour, raw commodity left to rot; Traditional Storage
Treated Storage
Poor Machine Set Up, Paddy Is Too Dry, Mix Paddy, Poor Machine Set Up, Variety
Price Discounting Depending On Degree Of Quality Deterioration
Small-Scale Corn And Bean Farmers Account For Most Of The Domestic Production. They Continue To Apply Certain Post-Harvest Practices Which, In Most Cases, Tend To Increase Post-Harvest Losses. These Include Spreading Grain On The Ground, Plastic Or Pavement To Dry By Exposure To Direct Sunlight, Which Adds To Contamination And Holds In Moisture, And Storing Grain In Places Where Humidity, Insects And Fungi Cannot Be Controlled.
In the field 1.7 59% 33%  During threshing 1.0 64% 26%  During transport 0.2 60% 26%  At germination 0.2 61% 22%  During temporary storage before  drying  0.1 58% 23%  During drying 0.9 60% 26%  During loading 0.1 57% 25%  During storage after drying 0.3 53% 29%  Other 7.2 22% 30%     Quality deficiencies  (e.g. protein and  starch quality) was  the main cause,  followed by plant  diseases, threshing  and weather  conditions.   Increased nitrogen  fertilisation, more  pesticide use, improved  storage, better cultivars  and reduction in  competitive  disadvantage.    Average (%)/ Frequency of producers/Frequency of producers who answered ?Don?t know?   Disease in the field 6.3 38% 34%  Lodging (e.g. Caused by heavy rain) 2.4 43% 28%  Pest damage 2.8 40% 29%  Weather conditions (rain, floods, etc.) 3.7 40% 30%  During temporary storage before drying 0.6 35% 29%  Technical problems related to cultivation  practices (damage caused by spraying, etc.)  0.3 33% 32%  Threshing 3.8 38% 30%  Pest damage during storage 0.2 35% 31%  Other quality parameters (foreign seeds,  damaged seeds, etc.)  0.6 37% 29%  Falling number 1.3 33% 30%  Protein content 8.9 38% 29%  Test weight 4.7 36% 28%  Other 13.1 17% 28%
Higher Postharvest Losses Of Tomato In The Conventional Production System May Be Attributed To The Lower Price Due To Higher Supply, Which Restrains The Growers And Other Intermediaries To Adopt Improved Practices
In-field losses also occur. The most common reasons for losses, 38% (6 farmers), were  crop damage during harvesting or handling and in-field damage from insects or other  wildlife (Figure 97). There were also losses due to weather conditions and undesired size  and appearance of the crop. Two farmers ticked the alternative ?Other? and specified  the reason to be ?Normal losses at threshing?
Bundling
Mould development, insect pests, rodents, wild animals and domestic animals
Early Harvestmold, Improved Variety
Garitransport
With milk cooling system, but expensive and unreliable power supply
Predators
Left in the field
Drying Before Threshing
Lack Of Packing And Manual Method
Misshapen Fruit
Price Discount For Every One Bruchid Hole Per 100 Grains
Poor status of machines
Rejected Fruits Could Be Immature, Over Ripe, Bruised Or Fly Infested, With A Low Chance Of Commercializationthey'Re Also Picked And Then Sorted For Marketability, An Un Measured Percent Also Stays In The Fsc As Animal Feed
Market Storage Spillage
Poor handling, very bad roads Lack of training Only large growers had access to markets
Sickle Reaping, Dry Season
Major losses at the small-scale level farm due to a lack of adequate technology
Rodents, insects, moulds
Fig 3 Percent Loss for Apples    Direct from producer to market
Lack of diversified uses of tomatoes is one main source of postharvest losses.
Surface Infections From Mold And Fungus
Weather conditions,  quality issues and  pests/animal  damage are the  major reasons
Rottenness, Weight loss, Contusions, Greening, Wrong sorting, Excessive duration on market
Reapers
Rotting/Decay Over-Ripening
The main causes of storage loss in order of importance are moisture , rodents and spillage ( Dessalegn et a ! 1998 ) . The loss due to moisture', ""in bulk .    early onset of mould damage may be unusual , in view of the rain at harvest and the subsequent difficulties that many farmers faced in drying their grain this season . Mould damage is regarded by local farmers as more of an inconvenience than', 'grain this season . Mould damage is regarded by local farmers as more of an inconvenience than a loss , since all the grain will be used for food or for brewing after washing to remove visible'
Central Storage
Plant diseases and moulds during storage because of weather, crop rotation, storage conditions and cultivar. Minor quality deficiencies were also mentioned as major reasons for post-harvest losses.
Heat
Breakage
Gariprocessing
Improper Packaging
Overripe
Insects    Table 6. The loss in weight of sorghum at the end of storage in each area
During delivery to food shops or similar
Zafarullah (1985) observed 2.1% total manual harvesting  losses
Lack Of Cold Storage
Varieties, Mold, Improved Variety
Full sunlight
Varieties/Sorting
Losses in the marketing channel tend to be inversely related to package size: Losses for the 25 k- sack were 21.3%. decreasing to 17.5% for 50 kg sacks and 16.3C/ for 75 kg sacks.
Cleaning
Insect Damage
Pest/ Disease
long transport, packaging, handling and storage at wholesaler
Early Maturity
Undersized potatoes
Wholesale To Retail
Insects and rodents
Traditional Granaries
mechanical threshing of millet caused higher losses (19.3% losses) than manual (6.3%)
inappropriate harvesting technologies (machetes) and poor soil conditions (dry and stony).
Paddy Rice -Drying And Storage
Table 4  Percentage losses during manual processing practices.
Most important: After harvest: Quality (appearance, size), plant diseases and damage. During harvest: Weather conditions, plant diseases and harvesting procedures.
In Sun On Cement
Physical Losses From Harvest To Sale Including Storage
Rejected because it does not meet European import criteria
At Retail Sold At Discounted Price
Sourced from Jha et  al. (2015
Insectes (a La Recolte)
Damage Typically Increased .85% Per Month Stored And 1.4% Had Other Damages
Bala et al. (1980) also reported  4.09% grain losses of wheat by traditional methods of harvesting and threshing.
rodents, insects and dampness at storage places
Handling/Transport
Insects
There were weight losses in both varieties (Nerica 1 and  Nerica 2) ranging between 6.19 and 9.35% (Table 4).  The reduction in the weight could also be due to moisture  losses from the grains during storage as well as pest and  insect infestations.
Produce For Domestic Market, On The Other Hand, Was Subject To Large Losses Because Of Bad Treatment And Handling
Maturity, Ripeness (Within Two Days Of Ripening), Size (Large Are Preferred As They Have More Pulp), Bruising, And Spots Or Pest/Insect Damage
Energy consumption and abscission
This paper describes a survey of farm-level grain storage losses in Southern Malawi and the practical problems of  such surveys. The limitations of two different loss-assessment methods are discussed with regard to observed  discrepancies but it is concluded that losses in up to 10 months storage were 3% or less for maize and less than 2%  for sorghum. Such losses demonstrate the suitability of the grain varieties stored in the area to conservation during  the characteristic dry season. The considerable likelihood of greater losses with high-yielding but more susceptible  varieties, if these were introduced to the area, is indicated.
Use Of Underage Labour
(dry season)-  (rainy season) - due to Anthracnose
Pancle/ Sickle Harvesting two varieties of rice
Losses in the field    Fig 3 Percent Loss for Apples
Traditional Milling
pests
rough handling, unprotected storage conditions, and poor transportation
Storage In Traditional Granaries In Tropical Africa
Dry/Wet Seasons
Bad Harvesting, Collection And Threshing Techniques
Field To Krishi Bazar    The oranges were found to be transported from field to  Krishi Bazar in mini trucks or tractors or doko (a basket  made of bamboo) covering with plant leaves for  cushioning. The dealers in Krishi Bazar reported that  each day they receive 4 to 5 trucks of oranges having 15  to 25 quintals from different areas. From the survey, the  losses in transportation of Mandarins from field to Krishi  Bazar was observed to be around 25% from all areas and  from Krishi Bazar to consuming markets/ terminal  markets was negligible (about 1%). The main nature of  transportation losses were reported to be damage,  bursting, peeling, shrinkage, etc.
Broccoli For Export Was Handled With Care So The Water Loss And Mechanical Damage Were Very Low
tomatoes unmarketable after 5 days (brought from Bogra to Gazipur wholesale market)
Loading/Unloading
Spreading out in sunlight
Lack Of Proper Drying Facilities
Small onions left in field due to how the harvester  was adjusted.  Onion piles found in field caused by the gap  between two wagons behind the tractor.  Parts of the field not harvested because it was  waterlogged and difficult to harvest.
Traditional Structure
Storage weight losses in public sector stores
Spillage
Spreading Out In Sunlight
storage loss in order of importance are moisture, rodents and spillage
Damage during  harvesting or  handling;  unacceptable  size, shape and  appearance;  diseases in the  fields are the  main reasons.    ason, the reason that gave the highest value was damage at  harvest or handling, on average 22% (range 0?100%) (Figure 62). Disease occurring in  the field, unacceptable size or unacceptable shape/appearance were also major reasons  for discarding products, and all gave values around 17% (range 0?60%; 0?80%; 0?97%  respectively). Damage from insects or animals in the field as well as weather conditions  were considered on average to be minor reasons, and contributed 7% (range 0?100%)  and 5% (range 0?100%) respectively. The other reasons contributed on average less  than 5%.
Pancle/ Sickle Harvesting two varieties of rice    in the ?bambam? in the bag beating method (2.45%).  Harvesting losses ranged between 4.07 and 12.05% at farmer?s fields
Those farmers storing greater quantities of maize for longer periods suffered the highest percentage losses. Due to a poor harvest only one of the selected farmers in Chalimbana was able to store shelled grain throughout the storage season. He stored a hybrid variety and suffered a loss of approximately 6%.
Literacy and technology exposure: 60 -90 % of producers did not pre-cool produce after harvest.  Used vehicles or head loads to convey produce to market. Producers had no storage facilities 
(Md=4.7%, W=0.8%)
Marketing And Distribution
Sorting
Average /Frequency of producers/Frequency of producers who answered ?Don?t know?   In field 14% 47% 36%  During harvesting 5% 44% 27%  During cleaning 2% 9% 30%  During husking 5% 5% 27%  During blanching and freezing 0% 3% 28%  During colour sorting 8% 5% 27%  During sale and reclaim 17% 5% 30%  Other* 14% 14% 22%
Insects, moulds, rodents
Wilting
Insect
live weight loss
Garistorage (Rodents)
Lack Of Storage Facilities And Lack Of Packing
pest in storage
Sukhbiret al. (2007) compared the performance of reaper with  conventional method of manual harvesting of wheat crop with sickle to see the feasibility. They  recorded 5.8% to 11.8% harvesting losses with reaper.
Immaturity Insect Damage Rotting/Decay
Average/ Frequency of producers/Frequency of producers who answered ?Don?t know?   Disease in field 29% 59% 12%  Damage from pest insects or animals in field 17% 18% 6%  Weather conditions (frost, drought, etc.) 28% 35% 6%  During temporary storage before drying 0% 0% 6%  Technical problems related to cultivation method (spray  damage, poor drainage, etc.)  10% 6% 6%  Damage during harvest and handling 10% 41% 12%  Undesirable size 9% 29% 12%  Undesirable shape or appearance (rot, lumpy, etc.) 28% 47% 12%  Leftovers from processing 0% 0% 12%  Reclaimed 0% 0% 6%  No sale 9% 12% 6%
Spoilage
Cold room Storage    Fig 3 Percent Loss for Apples
public and private storage
Too Small
Most grapes are packaged and shipped in either carton boxes or paln rib crates. For Banati grapes, losses were 4.28% in the carton box and 17.85%7 in palm rib  crates. While the carton box redt..:es losses, its higher cost (45 versus 15 piasters) may discourage its use
Poor Storage And Cooling Infrastrures
due to poor quality No use of maturity indices Lack of knowledge Issues with access to credit
By Traditional Hand Cutting
Mechanical Decay
Public sector storage losses due to rodents
Poor Machine Set Up
Poor Handling And Storage
Moulds
Paddy Ricepaddy From Storage To Market
Insect pest damage
Reaper-Binder
Major reasons are  low protein content  and damage due to  animal wildlife.  Other reasons are  harvest, weather,  and low falling  number.  A main part of the  respondents said that  low quality was weather  related but there could  be improvements in how  fertilizers and pesticides  are being used. Better  technique?s for  handling/sorting the  different qualities were  also mentioned.
Threshing And Drying
Storage cassava Chips
Insects And Rodents
Measured In May
Fruit rot
Paddy Ricepaddy From Field To Home
Reduction In Germination
Poor Post Harvest Management    . Quantitative post-harvest losses of economic importance occur  in the field (15%); during processing (13e20%), and during storage (15e25%). The main storage pests  responsible for the losses are larger grain borers (Prostephanus truncatus), grain weevils (Sitophilus  granarius) and, the lesser grain borer (Rhyzopertha dominica). Most of the farmers considered changes in  weather (40%), field damage (33%), and storage pests (16%) as the three most important factors causing  poor crop yields and aggravating food losses. However, survey results suggest that the farmers? poor  knowledge and skills on post-harvest management are largely responsible for the food losses. 77% of the  surveyed farmers reported inadequate household foods and 41% received food aid during the previous  year. Increasing farmers? technical know-how on adaptation of the farming systems to climate variability,  and training on post-harvest management could reduce food losses, and improve poverty and household  food security
Gari
poor packaging and transportation methods
Mold
Method Of Lifting
Reduction de la germination
Mortality
During packing and storage of spring onions  During packing and storage of regular onions
The results of the milling analysis have been presented in  Table 6. The results showed that SB30 had marginally  higher milling yield (67.32%) than SB10 (66%).  However, the differences between the milling yields of  either the SB30 machine and the locally manufactured  milling machine or that of the SB10 machine and the  locally manufactured milling machine were significant.  The locally manufactured milling machine had the lowest  milling yield (63.33%). This implies that the locally  manufactured milling machine was less efficient as it also  resulted in higher percentage (52.7%) of broken grains  (Table 6). This implies that the local machine produced  less white rice per unit weight of paddy. This resulted in  less recoverable rice and therefore less revenue. SB30 is therefore superior to both SB10 and the Local machine in  terms of milling yield. In spite of the higher milling yield of  SB30, it is still lower than the 67.5% (2010 data)  considered to the lowest on record in the USA (Robinson,  2010). According to the author, this could lead to a shift  to selling more broken grains, consequently mean lower  prices. Norman and Otoo (2003) recommended that  improved dehulling and whitening machines should be  developed and tested for use in rice processing
Insects Attack
Freight Handler
Milk rejected by the processor
The survey finding further showed that most farmers used old technologies for drying cassava chips, including drying on a mat and by the roadside or on wooden platform built over fireplace in the traditional kitchen. Infection by moulds was a major contributor of drying loss. This factor was reported by 68 % of farmers interviewed. The unhygienic conditions created by local drying methods attract pest infestation. The causes of processing loss include cutting deep into the flesh of the tubers during peeling. The major losses during storage of cassava chips include insect infestation, rodent attack and contamination with pest droppings
Average Varieties, Mold, Improved Variety
Leakage from machinery
Central Stores
During sale or advertisement
Transport
Paddy Rice Threshing And Winnowing
The wheat grain losses are classified as i) pre-harvest grain loss due to  the birds, rodents and environmental; ii) harvest grain loss during harvesting of the crop; and iii) postharvest grain loss due to bundling, transporting, threshing and winnowing.  Muhammad Sattar et al. ?Grain Losses of Wheat as Affected by Different Harvesting and Threshing  Techniques?    Harvesting losses with manual wheat harvesting varied from 3 to 7% after ripening of the crop  (Iqbalet al., 1980).
Trimming &collection
In Sun On Bamboo
Scratches, Puncture Of Fruits, Insect Infestation Improper Harvesting, Infestation
Local Varieties, Negligible; High-Yielding Varieties
In The Urban Market
Insects And Mold
Mainly spoilage of evening milk
Added To Problems Related To Climate Is The Poor Quality Of Existing Storage Infrastructure, Which Does Little To Prevent Contact With Pests That Damage Stored Crops.
Manual
over-ripeness, rotting or excessive bruising, inappropriate postharvest practices of middlemen
Insects    The mean loss of maize sustained by all farmers in the SVADP was 3.2 ? 3.4% (SD) calculated by the SVW method and 1.8 ? 3.5% (SO) calculated by the count and weigh method (Table 4).
95% Of The Apples Produced In Jumla Are Stored In Underground Pits, While 5% Are Retained The Cellar Stores At Jumla
Milled Rice
Insectes (Caryedon)
During harvesting of spring onions  During field drying and harvesting of regular onions
Market Storage Moisture
insects and rodents
Transport Of Feed
Insect damage, rotten loss, remain in the soil, cutting loss
Pre-Cooling And Packaging
Machinery and handling tests
aluminium milk containers and cooling facility
Insect Pest
Garistorage (Moisture)
Market Storage Weevils
Late Harvest Mold, Land Race Variety
High Humidity
By Pedal Thresher
Major reason was  weather. Colour or  appearance also  important. Other  reasons:  insect/animal,  damage and  agronomical issues.    Damage from insects and animals in the field 10%  Weather conditions 60%  Agronomical problems 10%  Unwanted colour or appearance 20%
Damage By Rats And Domestic Animals
On-Farm Storage
Harvesting And Moving Of Bananas Is Done By Hand
Rotting, sprouting, weight loss
Sickle Reaping, Wet Season
Bruises, Softness, Puncturing Of Fruits Falling From Height, Open Stacking, Improper Plucking
Decay
Trimming
Evergreen Or Immature Fruit
Drying Before Storage
Different Techniques Of Preparation
Grading    Scientific grading of Mandarins is not done by any  of the dealers. At the most, the fruits are sorted  out according to size, shape and color. There are  hardly any losses in the process of grading, but  due to improper handling of the fruits or due to  over ripened fruits, there are likely losses of the  fruits at the time of grading. The percentage of  losses may be 0.5 to 3.
Tractors With Front End Reapers
Lack Of Storage Facilities, Use Traditional Methods, And Lack Of Labour
Cut potatoes
Fig 4 Percent Loss for Pears  Cold Storage
The wheat grain losses are classified as i) pre-harvest grain loss due to  the birds, rodents and environmental; ii) harvest grain loss during harvesting of the crop; and iii) postharvest grain loss due to bundling, transporting, threshing and winnowing.  Muhammad Sattar et al. ?Grain Losses of Wheat as Affected by Different Harvesting and Threshing  Techniques?    Similarly Ibupotoet al. (1991) investigated that average grain losses for traditional  methods during pre-harvest, harvest and post harvest stages were 10.9, 29 and 122.9 kg ha-1  or 0.28%,  0.77% and 3.28%, respectively
Poor Post Harvest Management, Marketing
This loss was due to evaporation loss, rottening, breakage
Rodents
The physical loss was measured by percentage of product sorted and not sold. Economic losses due to poor quality (a function of the % cumulative rate of defects, decay and damage that occurred during handling) could not be determined because price data reported for crops in Ghana were unreliable; The air temperatures during the handling at the farm, wholesale and retail markets were 29-31C, and 76 % RH at the farm and wholesale markets, and 72% RH at the retail market.
Grading into fufu
decentralized agricultural system in China  cereal storage losses resulting from insect infestations , mold damage , rat infestations , respectivel
Moisture and Rodents
Losses due to rodents in godown warehouses
an improved storage facility
Physiological And Mechanical Damage
Bruises, Injuries, Rottening Improper Handling, Falling Of Fruits, Fungal Attack
Shamabadi  (2012) while evaluating the performance of eight combines observed that time of harvesting, seed  moisture content, relative humidity, field topography and varietal characteristics are the major factors  affecting harvest losses. He concluded that mean total loss by different combines was 6.88% at wheat  harvesting stage.
Physical Losses    A bag of maize cobs that lost only 3% by weight would also lose 3% in value. To control insect infestation, at least 40g of 2% pirimiphos methyl would be needed for each bag of cobs. This would cost 4% of the cob value and would not completely eliminate the infestation or the damage.
Cuts
Effects of harvest date on moisture content (mc), grain loss, and insect infestation (P. truncatus, T. nigrescens, S. zeamais, C. quadricollis, and Carpophilus sp.) in maize stores
Poor cultural practices, not processed into flour, raw commodity left to rot
Use Of Underage Children
Parboiled Rice Parboiling
Residues of antibiotics in milk
Ripening at too high temperature and oxygen level.
Quality issues, pests, plant diseases, harvesting methods.Plant diseases, mould, germinated, injured 2 0 1 18%  Pests (insects, birds, etc.) 2 3 1 35%  Weather conditions 1 1 1 24%  Cultivation method and crop protection 1 0 1 12%  Harvest method 2 2 1 29%  Processing processes 1 0 0 6%  Wrong size/carrot shape 6 1 1 47%  Appearance (small spots, etc.) 2 3 1 35%  Other quality errors 1 0 1 12%  Surplus production 0 0 2 12%  Human error 1 0 0 6%  No buyers 1 0 0 6%  Not economically profitable 0 0 1 6%  Other reasons 0 0 0 0%
Decay, Mechanic Damage, Sorting
On-farm store
Traditional Storage
Disease, Poor Harvesting
rough handling, the effects of high ambient temperatures and poor quality  package
pressing against each other therefore causing mechanical damage
Rotten potatoes
Lower In The Surveyed Markets Of Chapai Nowabgonj, The Leading Mango Growing District Of Bangladesh (Table 12.2). This Result Would Be Attributed To The Use Of Recently Introduced Plastic Crates For Long Distance Transport Instead Of The Age-Old Conventional Method Of Mango Packaging With Bamboo Baskets And Gunny Bags
Weevil damage, mould contamination, breakage  (quantitative and qualitative loss)
Fig 4 Percent Loss for Pears
Physical Losses, Pests And Disease
Untreated Storage
Disease
Conditioning
mechanical and disease damage loss (peeled off)
Weather, animal damage,  harvesting conditions,  harvester adjustment,  driving speed, use of side  cutter (field pea) and  reasons related to field  conditions and cultivation  methods.   Careful harvesting, adjustment of  harvester for every plot, straight  driving line, selection of field plot,  maintain growing conditions,  cultivation method factors like  crop rotation, improved crop  protection and weed protection,  work scheduling
rotting
Lack Of Drying Equipment And All Raining At Drying Process.
transportation of the crops by head-loads, on bicycles and other means
Lack Of Labour, Lack Of Equipment, Water Logged, Rain During Harvesting, Manual Method Of Harvesting
Climatic conditions
Losses In Marine Shipments
. Quantitative post-harvest losses of economic importance occur  in the field (15%); during processing (13e20%), and during storage (15e25%). The main storage pests  responsible for the losses are larger grain borers (Prostephanus truncatus), grain weevils (Sitophilus  granarius) and, the lesser grain borer (Rhyzopertha dominica). Most of the farmers considered changes in  weather (40%), field damage (33%), and storage pests (16%) as the three most important factors causing  poor crop yields and aggravating food losses. However, survey results suggest that the farmers? poor  knowledge and skills on post-harvest management are largely responsible for the food losses. 77% of the  surveyed farmers reported inadequate household foods and 41% received food aid during the previous  year. Increasing farmers? technical know-how on adaptation of the farming systems to climate variability,  and training on post-harvest management could reduce food losses, and improve poverty and household  food security
Farm Storage
other causes such as rodents and theft
Transport 50 - 300 ltr of milk per day on motorbikes
Insects, mold and moisture
The study revealed that 70% of the surveyed farmers experience  food losses during pre- and post-harvest handling operations,  including during manual processing that cause mechanical  breakage and spillage of the food, and irksomeness to the processor.  Crop losses occur during pre-harvest drying on the field were  caused by wild animals, birds and rodents. In worst cases, up to 32%  of maize-on-cobs could be lost to birds, monkeys, other rodents  before harvest, and through qualitative spoilage by mould and  fungi which could be extensive in wet conditions. Similar qualitative loss through aflatoxin contamination of maize and cassava in  Tanzania and Congo had been reported (Manjula et al., 2009). In  terms of proportion of matured crops, 15% was estimated as preharvest field loss for most grain and legume crops. The farmers  expressed their inability and skills to effectively prevent or control  field losses by pests and rodents. An estimated 1.5% of the maize,  millet, sorghum and groundnut outputs were estimated to be lost  during harvesting. Losses during transportation of the crops by  head-loads, on bicycles and other means were 2.5%. This compares  with 2.25% losses recorded during transportation of rice from the  field to the store and 1% from the store to the market for maize in  Madagascar (Hodges, 2012). An estimated loss of 13.4% for maize  (P ? 0.009), 20% for millet and sunflower, 18% for groundnut, 10% for  pigeon pea, 6% for sorghum and 5% for sesame occur when manual  methods of processing were used (Table 4). The losses were in form  of mechanical damage such as breakage, puncture, compression,  rupture, dent bruises, or spillages of the crops.
Feed Storage Spoilage
Drying In Threshing Center
Poor Storage Conditions
Six Months On-Farm Storage
Over-ripening, poor handling
Off-season losses
According to a most conservative estimate, about 10% of the  cereals harvested in developing countries are lost annually (Chaudhry, 1982). Most of the Pakistani  scientists strongly believe that 10% post-harvest losses of wheat are not at all uncommon in our  country (Ahmad et al., 1992).
Poor transportation and handling -Improper handling by loading and off-loading, over-loading and insufficient protection in the truck.
Type Of Shelling Machine
but this varies by variety 2.19% loss left on threshing floors from tractor Phalla type of threshing, 2.1% from bullock threshing, 1.4% from mechanical threshing
Bad Harvesting Operations
Chaudhry (1979) estimated 2.01 and 1.2% grain  losses on account of tractor threshing and combine, respectively. The combine harvester not only  minimizes the post-harvest losses but also helps in shortening the harvesting period.
Main harvest side flow reasons: Unacceptable size and shape, damage during harvest and handling, insect or animal damage. Main post-harvest side flow reasons: Unacceptable size and shape, unacceptable appearance, damage during handling    Of the total carrot production, and including the companies that did not discard carrots in the specific practice in question (the zero values), the highest share was sorted out at washing, trimming or sorting (23%; range 0?67%), at storage after packaging (9%; range 0?24%), or at processing (8%; range 0?33%) (Figure 18). 5% (range 0?50%) of the carrot production was not harvested, 6% (range 0?40%) of the production was estimated to be lost at harvesting, and 4% (range 0?35%) was discarded at packaging.  At sales or reclamation, only 0.2% was discarded.
Distance Transported, Poor Packaging, Uncontrolled Ripening
Poor Storage Facilities
Ketchup production
Fresh Tuber Too Woody
Lack Of Drying Facilities And Lack Of Labour
disease loss
Rodents and insects
The causes of quantitative losses are similar to those for qualitative losses only that the extent of the damage makes the fruit unmarketable. The placement of wrapped bananas on motorbikes and trucks caused physical injuries which affected the fingers on the outer row of the hands. After ripening the bruised area becomes hardened and creates avenues for entry of pathogens. Since bananas are climacteric, injury to the fruit causes ethylene production, increases respiration and water loss thereby shortening postharvest life. Additionally, decay caused by pathogenic agents' sets in at the point of injury
Temperature
Major reasons are  harvesting and  handling and did not  have enough time to  harvest all.  Other reasons  include weather  conditions, wrong  size and appearance,  agricultural  problems
losses between farm and retail ranged from 34. 1% for green plastic boxes (25 kg) to 28.2% for palm rib crates lined with perforated carton. However, examination of losses which ot.cur when the tomatoes are sorted at the farm indicate that much of the variation in losses for unsorted fruit may be due to quality differences. Sorting at the farm level reduces marketing losses
Pests and disorders
Resistance Status Of Some Maize Lines And Varieties To The Maize Weevil, Sitophilus Zeamais (Motschulsky) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae).
Storage
Rejects Of Export Quantities
Shoulder Power Reaper
Green potatoes
Sickness, Plague, Mechanical, Small
Bruises, Scratches Improper Handling
Insects, Mold
Insects and moisture
Rough Handling, Inability To Finish And Market In Shorter Times, Inefficient Protection From Sun
Rotting
Shelling
Field Stacking
Manual Plus Threser
Private Vehicle (Truck)
Handling
Pests, plant diseases and quality issues are the main reasons.
Crib-drying
4 months storage in house type godowns
Processing
On-farm stores
Begum et al. (2012) found 0.51 kg/quintal grain losses of wheat during the threshing  activity. They concluded that threshing losses were mainly in the form of broken grains. They  observed 2.35 kg/quintal post-harvest losses at farm level. The harvesting losses have added up to  about 40.85 per cent.
Storage Starch
Damaged, Insect Infestation, Bruises Due To Fall Of Fruits, Cracked And Spoiled Fruits
In Shell
Insects, rodents, mold and moisture
Moisture Content And Insects
Table 3: Storage losses (%) by crop In Amltara, Oromyla and Southern Regions of Ethiopia
Rodents, insects and moulds
This loss comprised the weight loss (57%), spoilage loss (34%) and other loss (9%) caused due to sprouting, shrinkage, cold injury etc
rough handling, the effects of high ambient temperatures and poor quality package
InsecteInsectes (Trogoderma) rats 
Sickle Harvesting
Use of casual labour
Field Stacking And Bundling
Moisture loss ,Mechanical damage , Transportation and storage -
Compressed And Cut Fruit
Rodents, Insects and Moulds
Parboiled Rice Storage
And Diseased And Prematurely Ripened Fruit
The lack of drying facilities in most maize growing areas of the country, has led to significant losses
Quality At Supermarket
Damage during  harvesting or  handling;  unacceptable  size, shape and  appearance;  diseases in the  fields are the  main reasons.
Harvesting in the rain
left in field
No cooling facility
Insect At Entrepot Cooperative
Traditional Hand Cutting
Spillage Out Of Threshing Floor
Not harvested
Ear Detachment
Triming Of Leaves, Sold Fresh
Unshelled Beans
Physical Damage, Bruises, Cuts, Over Ripen, Immature Improper Harvesting, Falling Of Fruits, Improper Handling, Monkey Attack
Rodents, Insects and moulds
Market Storage Rodents
Insects, moisture and mold
weed
Lack Of Biological Agents (Natural Predators) In The Field
Over-ripening, poor handling, poor storage
In Sun With Screen
General poor handling Lack of training Only large growers have access to export markets
Harvest Land Preparation And Soil Management Are Poorly Conducted, And Pests And Diseases Are Ineffectively Controlled, Leading To Low Yields. Inappropriate Harvesting Tools And An Insufficiently Trained Workforce. All Produce Earmarked For The Fresh Food Market Is Packed In So-Called Extended Bags, Which Farmers And Brokers Fill With Unselected Harvested Potatoes - I.E. They Include Green, Cut, Bruised Or Rotten Produce. Of The Potatoes Placed On The Market, Nearly A Quarter Are Damaged Or Green. Almost All Of These Potatoes Are Eventually Sold, But The Quality Issues Mean Prices Must Sometimes Be Lowered.
Storage Of Untreated Grain
Shipping Line
Defects/Impurities Small Scale
Long Duration In The Field
The main causes of storage loss in order of importance are moisture , rodents and spillage
large sacks
Mold, Insects
Over ripening
Carotenoid Loss During Drying
Sickle
Processing into Starch
Paddy Rice Harvesting
open-access harvesting and the slapping paddy threshing system
Not harvested 1%  Lost during harvesting 2%  Lost when separating peas from soil and other non-pea material 5%  Lost during blanching and freezing 5%  Lost during colour sorting 6%  Lost during sale to consumer or because of complaints 1%    Major reason was  weather. Colour or  appearance also  important. Other  reasons:  insect/animal,  damage and  agronomical issues.    Damage from insects and animals in the field 10%  Weather conditions 60%  Agronomical problems 10%  Unwanted colour or appearance 20%
Burnt/broken potatoes
Transport And Dist
